ZÉPHYR — DEMO SCRIPT · ~3:30 spoken · works for the video and the 5-min judge demo
(read the plain lines out loud · everything in (parentheses) is what to do on screen)
(before starting: dev server running, browser at localhost:3000, zoom 100%, notifications off, mic permission already granted, W-9 pdf on desktop)

------------------------------------------------------------
0:00 — INTRO
(be on the homepage hero, don't scroll yet)

Hi, I'm Vraj, and this is Zéphyr.

The mistral is the fierce wind of southern France. The zéphyr is its
gentle sibling — the west wind. Mistral's models do all the heavy
lifting underneath. Zéphyr is the soft breeze that carries research
to the reader.

0:20 — THE PROBLEM

AI moves faster than anyone can read. And the engineers who stay
great are the ones who keep reading the papers. But papers are two
columns of nine-point type, figures stranded pages away from their
mention — so most of us quietly stopped reading the most important
writing in our field. And honestly, finding a new idea in a fresh
paper is one of the real joys of this job. We just made the reading
unbearable.

Zéphyr makes papers people actually read.

0:45 — THE SITE
(start scrolling slowly, one line per section as it passes)

Paste an arXiv link, or drop a PDF. No account.

(why-zéphyr cards) The issue: reading papers hurts. The solution: we
re-set them like a first edition. The magic: you just read.

(poster wall, one breath per poster) Refresh — reading should feel
like a cold drink, not a chore. Zéphyr — the wind that leaves pages
lighter. Look up — a citation should lift your eyes, not stop them.
Think — wide margins are an invitation to argue in pencil.

(features) Figures move. Citations resolve. Print-ready.

(rooms walk — CLICK the grand hall plate) And you pick the room you
read in. I'll take the grand hall — every edition opens there now.

(keep scrolling to the bento gallery) Real papers, already pressed.

1:20 — THE FINISHED ARTIFACT
(click the DeepSeek-R1 cover in the gallery)

This is a pressed paper. Proofread against the original — thirty-six
claims checked. The press notes: the field, the hard part most
readers struggle with, and an importance score. Real figures, placed
next to the ideas they prove.

(click the Poster button, let the cover flip in)

And every edition gets a cover.

(click back to the edition, flip Folio → Pamphlet once)

One paper, three cuts — I'll show you properly on a fresh one.

2:05 — THE LIVE PRESS
(go home, paste arxiv.org/abs/2310.06825, hit Typeset it)

That DeepSeek edition took the press about three minutes. Watch it
happen — with Mistral's own paper.

(press screen runs, cat walks, ~15 seconds — let it breathe)

Receive. Read. Re-set. Bind.

2:25 — THE DEEP DIVE
(edition lands — click Octavo)

Half the length — and every orange highlight is provably the paper's
own sentence, verified character for character against the
manuscript. We don't trust the model's word for it.

(scroll to the architecture engraving)

The press even engraves the architecture.

(select a sentence in the text — click "Ask Le Chat")

Highlight anything, and ask.

(press cmd-option, cat meows, bubble opens — click the mic, speak:)

"What are three things to remember from this paper?"

(click mic again to send — answer streams, then plays ALOUD — let a
few seconds of the voice play, smile, don't talk over it)

Voice in, voice out. One line on the stack: Mistral's OCR reads every
page, Mistral's models re-set and proofread it, and Voxtral does the
hearing and the speaking. One vendor, end to end.

3:00 — THE EDGE CASE
(go home, click the paperclip in the typebox, upload the W-9 pdf)

And if someone hands the press a tax form —

(wait for the doorkeeper's joke, read it out loud, grin)

Papers only. Everything else, coming soon.

3:15 — CLOSE
(cmd-tab to show Zephyr.app in the dock for one beat, then back)

It's on my dock as a Mac app. And one more thing — Mistral Vibe
co-wrote this repo. It drafted code, reviewed the pipeline, and its
review caught three real bugs. It's all in the git log. One honest
note for the Mistral team: Vibe's image generation is chat-only —
I'd love that as an API.

Where this goes: a monthly subscription. One pressed paper a day in
your field. Technical blogs next. Team reading rooms after. This
weekend was the MVP — the press keeps running.

Zéphyr. Papers people actually read.

(stop. ~1 minute 15 left for questions in the judge round)

------------------------------------------------------------
Q&A ONE-LINERS (if asked)
- Moat? Everyone summarizes. We PROVE every highlight and check every
  claim — receipts on screen.
- Hallucination? Proofread-and-correct loop, deterministic verbatim
  matching, and an honest badge that hides itself when inconclusive.
- Cost/time per paper? Two to four minutes, pennies.
- What breaks? Very long papers truncate at 120k characters;
  math-heavy proofreads go inconclusive — and say so.
- Vibe usage? Co-authored commits, code review, prompt drafting —
  verifiable: git log --grep "Mistral Vibe".
